Editorial Tools accessibility guidelines extension (#7)
guardian/accessibility: editorial-tools-guidelines.md

It's also a [criterion](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/focus-visible.html) for the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) - the primary international standard for accessibility.

It is good to use consistent styling across a page for the focus ring, because doing so communicates more clearly which element is focused. We either preserve the default browser focus ring, or else use the [Source Focus Halo](https://github.com/guardian/source/blob/eab592ab9c1cc4c69128decb8149de536435105b/src/core/foundations/README.md#focus-halo).

### Appendix: Semantic HTML

Semantic HTML is the use of specific HTML tags to convey meaning to the browser.

For example, we use an `<h1>` tag for a top level heading, a `<p>` tag for a paragraph of text, or a `<nav>` for a navigation bar (and there are [many more](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element)). In terms of style, we could use a `<div>` or a `<span>` for all of these - overriding the default styles provided by the browser.

> But these tags provide *semantic* cues, as well as styles. Why is this helpful? Among other reasons, screen readers can use them as a signpost to help visually impaired users navigate a page. For example, text in an emphasis tag (`<em>`) is stressed by some screenreaders, while the `<italic>` tag isn't. 

Reviewer: I did not know about screen reader emphasis!

Slight change, please correct me if I'm wrong:

```suggestion
But these tags provide *semantic* cues, as well as styles. Why is this helpful? Among other reasons, screen readers can use them as a signpost to help visually impaired users navigate a page. For example, text in an emphasis tag (`<em>`) is stressed by some screen readers, while the `<i>` tag isn't. 
```

Author: Ah - you're definitely right.

> Beyond accessibility, semantic html can make it easier for our developers to parse code, and distinguish layout components from those containing meaningful content.

Reviewer: Semantic elements also add keyboard functionality to controls, for instance `<button>` elements may be activated by pressing `Enter` or `Space`. If you substituted a `<button>` for a styled `<div>`, you'd manually have to add a `click` event listener as well as `keydown` listeners.

Author: Really good addition - I think I'll borrow that wholesale if you don't mind?

Author: Thanks for taking a look Simon!

It is good to use consistent styling across a page for the focus ring, because doing so communicates more clearly which element is focused. We either preserve the default browser focus ring, or else use the [Source Focus Halo](https://github.com/guardian/source/blob/eab592ab9c1cc4c69128decb8149de536435105b/src/core/foundations/README.md#focus-halo).

### Appendix: Semantic HTML

Semantic HTML is the use of specific HTML tags to convey meaning to the browser.

For example, we use an `<h1>` tag for a top level heading, a `<p>` tag for a paragraph of text, or a `<nav>` for a navigation bar (and there are [many more](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element)). In terms of style, we could use a `<div>` or a `<span>` for all of these - overriding the default styles provided by the browser.

But these tags provide *semantic* cues, as well as styles. Why is this helpful? Among other reasons, screen readers can use them as a signpost to help visually impaired users navigate a page. For example, text in an emphasis tag (`<em>`) is stressed by some screen readers, while the `<i>` tag isn't.
  

> Semantic elements also add keyboard functionality to controls, for instance <button> elements may be activated by pressing Enter or Space. If you substituted a <button> for a styled <div>, you'd manually have to add a click event listener as well as keydown listeners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semantic elements also add keyboard functionality to controls, for instance `<button>` elements may be activated by pressing Enter or Space. If you substituted a `<button>` for a styled `<div>`, you'd manually have to add a click event listener as well as keydown listeners.
```
